DOCS-12368-dw-object-sample-kt (#90)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-cookbook-map-an-object.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: studio, anypoint, transform, transformer, format, aggregate, rename, split, filter convert, json, metadata, dataweave, data weave, datamapper, dwl, dfl, dw, output structure, input structure, map, mapping, as

> The following DataWeave examples use the `mapObject` function to iterate through the keys and values in each of the objects of the arrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following DataWeave examples use the `mapObject` function to iterate through the keys and values of objects.
```
It does not iterate over arrays. The array are transformed by other functions to an object and the mapObject iterate through that object.

include::partial$cookbook-dw/map-an-object/out.json[]
----

== Second Example

> This example uses the `mapObject` function to iterate through the elements in a table. If two rows have the same values in the `FirstName`, `LastName` or `Age` columns, the DataWeave script transforms both rows into a single row in a CSV file. The remaining values in the `Team Name` and `Role` columns in the row file are concatenated with `:` in the single CSV row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses the `mapObject` function to iterate through the keys and values of the object that results from using `groupBy` on the payload. If some objects of the input payload have the same values in the `FirstName`, `LastName` and `Age` keys, the DataWeave script transforms those objects into a single row in a CSV file. The remaining values in the `Team Name` and `Role` keys for those objects are concatenated with `:` in the single CSV row.
```
Transform from json objects to the CSV file

[[ex02]]

.Input JSON Payload:
[source,json,linenums]
----
include::partial$cookbook-dw/map-an-object-ex02/inputs/payload.json[]
----

> In the previous input example, `Sr.No. 2` and `Sr.No. 3`, and also `Sr.No. 5` and `Sr.No. 6` are exactly the same person because they have same first name, last name and age. However, `Sr.No. 4` is different person with same first and last name but different age.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: "In the previous input example, the object pair `Sr.No. 2` and `Sr.No. 3`, as well as the object pair `Sr.No. 5` and `Sr.No. 6`, refer to the same person, as they have the same first name, last name, and age. However, `Sr.No. 4` refers to a different person, as it has the same first and last name but a different age.

.DataWeave Script:
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
include::partial$cookbook-dw/map-an-object-ex02/transform.dwl[]
----

> The DataWeave scripts merges the repeated values of columns `FirstName`, `LastName` or `Age` of rows `Sr.No. 2` and `Sr.No. 3`, and also rows `Sr.No. 5` and `Sr.No. 6`. These values are separated with `,` in the sigle CSV row. The values of the `Team Name` and `Role` columns are concatenated with `:` in the sigle CSV row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DataWeave script merges the repeated values of keys `FirstName`, `LastName` and `Age` of the objects with key-value `Sr.No. 2` and `Sr.No. 3`, and also `Sr.No. 5` and `Sr.No. 6`. These values are separated with `,` in the single CSV row. The values of the `Team Name` and `Role` for those objects are concatenated with `:` in the single CSV row.
```
From JSON objects to CSV rows.

> The DataWeave script merges the repeated values of keys `FirstName`, `LastName` and `Age` of the objects with key-value `Sr.No. 2` and `Sr.No. 3`, and also `Sr.No. 5` and `Sr.No. 6`. These values are separated with `,` in the single CSV row. The values of the `Team Name` and `Role` for those objects are concatenated with `:` in the single CSV row.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: The DataWeave script merges the repeated values of `FirstName`, `LastName` and `Age` of the objects with key-value `Sr.No. 2` and `Sr.No. 3`, as well as `Sr.No. 5` and `Sr.No. 6`. These values are separated with `,` in the single CSV row. The values of `Team Name` and `Role` for those objects are concatenated with `:` in the single CSV row.

.Output CSV:
[source,CSV,linenums]
----

> include::partial$cookbook-dw/map-an-object-ex02/out.json[]

Reviewer 3: change the file extension from `out.json` to `out.csv`
